README.md, before:

# Physics Simulation Lab

A collection of interactive physics simulations built with React, TypeScript, and p5.js.

## Available Simulations

### 1. Collision Simulator
Explore elastic collisions between objects of different masses and visualize conservation of momentum and energy.

### 2. Double Pendulum Chaos
Witness the fascinating chaotic behavior of a double pendulum system. Adjust initial conditions and physical parameters to explore how small changes can lead to dramatically different outcomes.

#### Features:
- Real-time physics simulation using Lagrangian mechanics
- Adjustable initial conditions (angles and angular velocities)
- Customizable physical parameters (masses, lengths, gravity, damping)
- Visual trail of the second pendulum bob
- Phase space visualization
- Energy conservation monitoring
- Time scale control
- Interactive controls with immediate feedback

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
3. Start the development server:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```
4. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:5173`

## Technologies Used

- React
- TypeScript
- p5.js
- Mantine UI
- Vite

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Enhance analysis script and update README with new simulations
- Added a function to find source files in `analyze-codebase.sh`, improving file analysis capabilities.
- Implemented similarity checks for component files, optimizing the comparison process.
- Updated README.md to include new simulation features and screenshots for Block Collision, Double Pendulum, Newton's Cradle, and Particle Interactions.
- Enhanced the main interface description to reflect the use of Mantine UI components for better user experience.
- Added source code statistics and type safety analysis to the analysis script for comprehensive project insights.

README.md, after:

# Physics Simulation Lab

A collection of interactive physics simulations built with React, TypeScript, and p5.js.

## Available Simulations

### 1. Collision Simulator
![Block Collision Simulation](screenshots/block_collision.png)

Explore elastic collisions between objects of different masses and visualize conservation of momentum and energy. The simulation demonstrates how momentum and kinetic energy are conserved during perfectly elastic collisions.

### 2. Double Pendulum Chaos
![Double Pendulum Simulation](screenshots/double_pendulum.png)

Witness the fascinating chaotic behavior of a double pendulum system. Adjust initial conditions and physical parameters to explore how small changes can lead to dramatically different outcomes.

#### Features:
- Real-time physics simulation using Lagrangian mechanics
- Adjustable initial conditions (angles and angular velocities)
- Customizable physical parameters (masses, lengths, gravity, damping)
- Visual trail of the second pendulum bob
- Phase space visualization
- Energy conservation monitoring
- Time scale control
- Interactive controls with immediate feedback

### 3. Newton's Cradle
![Newton's Cradle Simulation](screenshots/newtons_cradle.png)

Experience the classic demonstration of conservation of momentum and energy with this interactive Newton's Cradle simulation. Observe how energy transfers through the system and how the number of balls affects the resulting motion.

### 4. Particle Interactions
![Particle Interaction Simulation](screenshots/interaction.png)

Explore the behavior of particles under various force fields and interactions. This simulation allows you to:
- Create and manipulate multiple particles
- Apply different types of forces (gravitational, electric, magnetic)
- Observe particle trajectories and interactions
- Adjust physical parameters in real-time

## Main Interface
![Main Application Interface](screenshots/main.png)

The application features a clean, modern interface built with Mantine UI components, making it easy to:
- Switch between different simulations
- Adjust simulation parameters
- View real-time data and visualizations
- Control simulation playback

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
3. Start the development server:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```
4. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:5173`

## Technologies Used

- React
- TypeScript
- p5.js
- Mantine UI
- Vite
- Electron (for desktop application)

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
